In this class I want you to learn
how movements are noticed in accounting
accounts.
The account always has that
structure, right?
It is a T.
The left side is called the deed
and the right side is called
the haber.
You have to memorize this.
The complicated thing here is that
accounts, the different types of
accounts grow by the must or by the
having.
And that's what I want you to learn today.
Let us see.
Remember that we have accounts that
go to the balance sheet and accounts
that go to the outcome.
The balance sheet includes the accounts
of assets, liabilities
and net assets.
The income and expenditure accounts
will be transferred to the results.
Here, for example, we have a
bank account with two notes
worth 11,000 euros in the debt
and one for 6,000 in the
having.
Well, the important thing is that
I want you to understand that
the asset accounts, look, the
asset accounts are on the
left of the balance sheet.
Each account will work
the same way.
It will grow on the left
side, by the debt.
Net and Passive accounts are
on the right side of the
balance sheet.
They will grow by having.
It's like imitating the
functioning of a balance sheet
within each of the accounts.
Let's take an example to see
if it helps.
Let's start with the asset accounts.
Look at the balance sheet.
Where are they?
They are here.
They are on the left, right?
Well, asset accounts grow
on the left side, grow on
the debt side.
Let us see.
We have the bank account,
we make one note, we do another,
it grows.
We make another note on the having,
which is a outlet in this case
of banks, of growth and the
balance is $5,000.
Where do we have it?
On the left side.
As you can see, left, left.
We are talking about
net capital, in this case,
net capital.
Where is it?
On the right side.
Where does it grow?
by the having.
We are going to passive accounts.
Where are the passive accounts in the
balance sheet?
You see, here they are, on
the right, you know.
Where do passive accounts grow
like this?
They grow by having.
We get a loan, imagine,
a mortgage worth $150,000.
The first year we will get back 20,000.
We have a balance of 130,000.
We take it to balance.
Here we have it.
Well, I hope these examples have
helped you understand why asset
accounts grow on the side of
debt, on the right, and
why net asset and liability
accounts grow on the right
side or on the having
side.
There are two types of accounts.
The income and expenditure
accounts used to calculate
the outcome of the year.
Remember that the result of the
exercise, when we do not share it
among the partners, what it does
is increase the net worth.
Let us think so.
We have income and expenditure
accounts.
The difference is the result of the exercise.
Therefore, income accounts
grow by having, they grow by
the right side, because they
increase net worth.
The accounting costs are the opposite.
The difference is the result of the
exercise that goes on the right side.
Therefore, it is obvious that
income accounts must grow by having
and expenditure accounts
must grow by debt.
Let's see some case.
income from sales.
We sold $6,000 in the have.
The balance is $6,000.
We have a cost of 4,000.
As we see, it grows by having,
the income and expenditure account
grows by debt.
We have a net profit of
$2,000 that we will reinvest
in the company.
The difference, 6,000, 4,000,
is 2,000 to the right, 2,000
in net worth.
I am aware that this
mechanism may be complex
to you.
However, I assure you that once
you practice it, this is like
driving.
You learn to drive, at first it costs
you, but when you have already interiorized
it, like driving a car, driving
a bike, when you have already
interiorized it, you get out
alone.
Thanks for watching the video!